typically what happens in a fight is
that we're passing shame back and
forth no I'm not bad you're bad no I'm
not bad you're bad right and so the
first thing that that requires is for
you to think that somebody's bad right
if you can get over the idea that
somebody's bad anybody's bad then the
fight just falls apart but the other
thing that can also make that fight just
fall apart is the idea that you don't
have to defend yourself
because the way the fight typically
works
is I feel attacked so I'm going to
defend myself my defense makes you feel
attacked so I'm going to defend myself
this defense makes you feel attacked and
so you have to defend yourself and back
and forth it goes so it's like you know
no that's not what I said you said
this right that's not what I said or I
said that because you know I said that
you were ugly only because you asked me
like how ugly am I so I was like well
you're about this ugly so I had no
choice right and so so I'm sitting there
saying like I'm not
wrong like understand me see me but
you're hearing wait you just called me
ugly again right like and so it's like
this back and forth thing that happens
where and you listen to yourself in the
next fight that you have and just go oh
wait
and can what I'm saying that defends
that I think is defending myself be seen
as an
attack because that's what I see in in
couples that are fighting all the time
each of them wants to be
seen and in their attempt to be seen
they're defending themselves and that
defense seems like an attack to the
other person and so both people feel
like they are defending themselves and
both people feel
attacked and so you can either stop
seeing that there's someone wrong so
there's no shame to go back and forth in
this shame hot potato or you can realize
oh there's nothing to
defend if you can drop that experience
right now just for a short period of
time and says I don't need to be seen at
this moment I can be seen in an
hour but in this moment I don't need to
be seen I don't need to defend anything
I can just actually listen and find out
what their reality
is and see that truth allow that truth
to be there not as like the ultimate
truth but just as a truth of right this
is where they are I can hear them I can
understand
them when they feel heard then often
times they're at that point wanting to
see you and so that's when you don't
need to let like if you hold on tightly
to trying to be seen you're going to
push being seen away and so that's how
that fight works almost every fight and
it it doesn't even matter if this is a
fight between a man and a a wife or like
NATO and Russia right like it's like it
happens like both people feel like
they're defending themselves on some
level for some reason and both people
feel the other person's defense is an
attack and it just goes back and forth
there's also the secondary benefit of
not needing to be
seen it's because what it requires is
you to actually see
yourself so in a
fight if you see yourself as bad or you
see the fact that you could be bad then
there's always going to be something to
defend so the more that you learn not to
defend yourself the more you can start
to notice your inherent goodness you
start to become immune to shame because
when you see people shame you it's like
oh you can just see they don't want to
feel bad about themselves or don't want
to feel out of
control and so if somebody else can't
see you and you recognize that like
they're not capable of seeing me right
now the only option for you to get to
peace is to see
yourself oh yeah here I am and I
actually love this person and I'm not
trying to hurt
anybody and I I can listen to them and I
want to be here with them and I'm I'm
not going to take abuse I'm I'm going to
draw my boundaries whatever it is but
you can just see that inherent goodness
in you in
yourself but as long as you're defending
yourself you you can't see it nobody
walks away from a fight feeling like oh
wow I feel great about
myself but if a fight starts and you go
oh I've done nothing wrong and you can
see yourself clearly and listen to the
other person you actually walk away
feeling
great being in a fight
[Music]